# Academic integrity expectations for STSCI 4780

This should go without saying: we expect students to adhere to Cornell's academic integrity standards. These standards are articulated in the following official documents:

* [Cornell's Code of Academic Integrity](https://theuniversityfaculty.cornell.edu/academic-integrity/code-of-academic-integrity/) — "Absolute integrity is expected of every Cornell student in all academic undertakings. Integrity entails a firm adherence to a set of values, and the values most essential to an academic community are grounded on the concept of honesty with respect to the intellectual efforts of oneself and others...."
* [Academic Integrity](https://theuniversityfaculty.cornell.edu/academic-integrity/) — A guide to academic integrity issues the Dean asks all courses to link to. It includes links to the Provost's [*Essential Guide to Academic Integrity at Cornell* (PDF pamphlet)](https://cpb-us-e1.wpmucdn.com/blogs.cornell.edu/dist/e/5276/files/2020/01/Academic-Integrity-Pamphlet-2019-VD.pdf); I believe this is the integrity booklet given to all incoming undergraduates, which students agree to by matriculating at Cornell. It also links to a 14 min video, [*Cheating*](https://cheatingvideo.provost.cornell.edu/), that clarifies what cheating means and its damaging effects on the entire academic community (including your peer students). It includes reflections from current and former students (including a reformed cheater), and faculty.

**Important 2020 supplement:** The switch to remote instruction in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic poses new academic integrity issues. Every student (and academic staff) must read and adhere to Cornell's additional [Spring 2020 Commitment to Academic Integrity, Equitable Instruction, Trust, and Respect](https://cpb-us-e1.wpmucdn.com/blogs.cornell.edu/dist/3/6798/files/2020/04/HonorFinal.pdf).

I've had the unfortunate experience of having to deal with academic integrity violations in the past, and I can't overemphasize how unpleasant, time-consuming, stressful, and consequential handling violations is for both the student involved, *and* the instructor. Once you've been through the process once as an instructor, you never want to go through it again; yet you *must* go through it when a violation happens, as a matter of fairness to students who adhere to the standards. The stress of this experience does not exactly encourage a positive attitude toward perpetrators. If you have the slightest temptation to cheat, you must watch (or re-watch) the *Cheating* video linked above, and look at the other resources on the Academic Integrity web page, to get a sense of what the consequences of such behavior can be.

Some notable ideas from the *Cheating* video:

* **Cheating is stealing, and lying—serious offenses:** "I think you should construe cheating, at least in an intellectual academic community... as literally *stealing*. And I think students and everybody will be much less likely to do this if they construe it as *theft* rather than just as a kind of gray area sneakiness." — *Prof. Andrew Chignell, Dept. of Philosophy*
  * A cheater steals the work of others, and lies by misrepresenting the stolen work as the cheater's own.
  * A cheater robs him/herself of opportunities to learn—to learn both academic material, and to train oneself in habits of integrity.
  * A cheater robs him/herself of the sense of achievement that comes from completing a task, even imperfectly, with one's own effort. A cheater will not discover what he or she is genuinely capable of; this ultimately undermines self-confidence.
  * Handling instances of cheating (and other academic integrity violations) requires large investments of time and emotional energy on the part of instructors and the administration. A cheater robs academic staff of their time and attention, and robs the cheater's classmates of the benefits of the staff's full time and attention.
* **Resisting cheating contributes to personal growth:** Part of your education is to experience failures (like undesirable grades on an assignment) in an environment where the outcome isn't as serious as it can be in the "real world," so you can learn how to handle failure. A student who cheats to avoid failure is robbing him/herself, both of an opportunity to learn how to handle failure, and of an opportunity to build a *habit of integrity* when facing moral and ethical choices. In the video, students (current and graduated) and faculty offer interesting perspectives on this (see especially Prof. Chignell's reflections in the last bullet point):
  * **Ethical strength:** "You have to be strong enough to take failure.... Ask yourself the age old question of: Is this morally right? Is it ethically okay to do this?" — *Kristen, senior*
  * **Risking failure:** "I think the best measurement of success is your failures; and I really believe in that, without question... as an artist... and as a business person. The risk of failure leads to greater reward than anything else you do in life. I think cheating is so problematic for future success because if you continue to cheat, you're never really failing. All you have are the decisions you make, and all you have is your integrity. And all you have is your name, and... ultimately that's why people hire you." — *Ryan Silbert '02, Academy Award-winning filmmaker*
  * **Intellectual growth:** "You don't get the benefit of all of the intellectual growth that comes with struggling through problems." — *Lance Collins, Dean, College of Engineering*
  * **Sense of achievement:** "It's an achievement; it's an achievement when you learn to do something that doesn't come easily." Cheating is taking a shortcut that removes any meaningful sense of achievement.  — *Prof. Marianella Casasola, Human Development*
  * **Short-term vs. long-term decision making:** "When you're faced with the temptation and you have the opportunity to cheat, and you don't, what you're doing is accepting that what you're capable of is going to have to be enough.... Making the wrong choice for the short term gain, really, it stays with you in a way that's unpleasant. The world treats you by what you do, not by who you think you are. So whoever you think you are, if you think you're an honest and forthright person, you have to act that way." — *Svante Myrick '09, Mayor, City of Ithaca*
  * **Building a habit of integrity:** "In the moment of an ethical decision—dilemma—the first part of the battle is to recognize it as a moral dilemma, as an ethical moment. In that moment it might be hard to do the right thing if you haven't previously been working on yourself in that way. Decide what kind of self you're constructing, what kind of person you're going to be over the long haul. It's a kind of habit, a practice over time that gets built up to the point where, in the moment, it would become very difficult to break this habit and do something that was out of keeping with the kind of person you're trying to become.... It's true that one little cut-and-paste is hard to connect up to some of these broader harms.... Don't wait until you get to that moment when you're exhausted, when it's due the next morning, to try to start figuring out what kind of person you're going to be in that circumstance." — *Prof. Andrew Chignell*
* **Consider the meaning and consequences of being a cheater:** A reformed cheater (whose post-graduate path was impacted by her cheating) reflects: "I didn't think of the big picture at all. I didn't think of the work that I was pulling my information from. I didn't think of what it said about me as a student. It was just one paper in just one class, and how much did it matter? And I just let myself think, it's not a big deal, it won't matter. It *did* matter; it mattered a *lot*. What strikes me and has truck me since then is that my first thought wasn't: I'll talk to my professor, and even if it comes down to a hit on my grade, at least I can get some type of extension.... I had to walk to my meeting with my professor, I had to sit down in a chair, and he crossed his legs and kind of went [audible expression of frustration/disappointment]. And there was this pregnant pause.... I was unprepared for how it would make me feel, and it was *terrible*.... He asked about the paper that was at question, and I panicked.... I could tell *he* didn't want to be there; it wasn't any more fun for him than it was for me. And I felt really badly that I had put him in this position, where he had to sit down with one of his students and be, like, '*What the heck?*' [She then discusses negative consequences for her post-graduate career.] If I had actually thought about this in a critical way, before I had put myself in the position to make a decision like that, I think I would've made different decisions."
* **Consider the instructor's perspective:** "It is *extremely* stressful as a faculty member to even begin this process. You are risking destroying a relationship you have with the student. And yet, on the other hand, if you don't pursue it—and this is what I've come to realize with time—if you don't pursue it, at some level, you are being unfair to the rest of the students in the class." — *Prof. Marianella Casasola, Human Development*

Please don't act contrary to the words or the spirit of Cornell's academic integrity code. If, in a weak moment, you do, I urge you to take the initiative to approach me about it in an apologetic spirit. If you do so, we will work together to address the problem in a quick, just, and relatively lenient way. If instead an instructor finds a likely violation and must initiate a response from the instructor's side, resources will have to be brought to bear (possibly escalating to include administrative involvement) that will very probably lead to a more serious, more punitive outcome.